For the average person, I don't think
they know anything about Corning.
>> You want to start [music] in the
beginning? Yeah. Let's start with Thomas
Edison.
>> Actually, I keep that in my office. The
very first order that he ever gave to
courting [music] for the first time he
came to us for glass envelopes.
>> That's incredible.
[music]
>> Yes. It's I keep that in my office uh to
remind me that big things start out very
small because that is a very small
order.
This week on Bold Names we have Corning
CEO Wendell Weekes. Now what does
Corning do? They have made everything
from the glass in Thomas Edison's light
bulbs to the glass screens on every
iPhone ever manufactured. They also make
the glass fibers and the fiber optic
cables which comprise the internet and
which are huge now because of the AI
boom. So how has this company remained
relevant from the 1800s until the
present day? That's what's [music] next.
Wendell, welcome to the show. I hear you
endured the dot bubble,
>> survived.
>> So talk to me about what happened,
right? Because there was the telecom
boom.
>> Yes. You guys were a big part of it in a
way that isn't often acknowledged or
known because you were building the
fiber optic cable that was being put
into the ground by companies that you
know later went bankrupt
>> that affected you. What was the peak?
What was the trough?
>> So at the peak I mean our optical
communications business was far and away
the core of our market value. At that
point in time, I think uh our shares hit
a high of about $100 per share in that
zone. And because of our core invention,
fiber optics, we did another one that
went itself beautifully to long-distance
transmission, which is what the internet
was about. And so when that then went
through its cycle, probably 90% of our
revenue in our photonix business
disappeared. So 20201 90% of your
>> revenue in platonics and probably about
half of fiber optics and we moved to a
loss position and at that point in time
our stock got as low as a $150 and you
could have bought the whole company for
a billion and a half dollars.
>> Wow.
>> Yes.
>> So it was you were kind of on death's
door or uh or private equities uh hit
list.
>> Yes, I am sure. Yes. Uh so that happened
pretty rapidly.
And uh so what we had to do is first
just quickly write the ship but then
after that we went through a deeply
reflective process about okay if we want
we've just had lasted 150 years if we
wanted to last another 150 years after
this near-death experience I mean the
harshest time in our company's history
right what would we have to do
>> what was that process of recovery then.
>> Well, in the early days, uh, what we
really felt was we had broke broke the
social contract with our people because
they had trusted us. They had signed up
with us. We are a company that has very
low attrition rates. We tend to hire,
we're a little old-fashioned. We tend to
hire for a whole career. So, we had to
let a large number of our folks go uh to
get the liquidity right. So, that was
enormously painful. And of course we
went through a period of where
leadership had low credibility. So what
we had to do is decide what do we want
to build on top of this once we writed
the ship and we ran a process that did
that and involved our folks and um and
really changed a lot of not only how we
ran the company but also the attitude
the leadership brought to it.
>> Yeah. I mean you use the phrase social
contract.
>> Yes. I've never heard those words out of
any CEO's mouth other than the chiefs of
maybe [clears throat] Costco. So, I'd
just love to dwell on this for one more
moment.
>> Sure.
>> You said you feel like you have a social
contract.
>> Yes.
>> You want low turnover.
>> But in this day and age, why do
employees find that credible?
>> It's easy to keep the commitment that
you have to folks when either things are
going really well for you and that
person is a high performer. What is hard
is either when things are going poorly
for the company. We just had a cycle
with that back post pandemic all of our
balance normally balanced businesses uh
were force correlated during the
pandemic and so they all went down at
the same time and we had the longest
decline period uh for us in revenue uh
six or seven quarters uh since the
telecom downturn. And what we decided to
do was rather than to adjust our size by
taking out another sort of 4,000 people
is to say no like we believe in our
innovations. Like we're down because our
markets are down.
>> So just very quickly, how did you make
that work financially?
>> Basically, we made it work financially
by letting our returns drop. There's no
magic math, right? We kept higher fixed
cost than our revenues would normally
support. So our profitability dropped
pretty significantly. And what we
basically said is like we're willing to
be misunderstood
uh for periods of time so that we can
live to what it is we believe in. And at
that time we were just u kind of
midcycle into our uh Gen AI products
we've been working on for four years.
And uh that really helped lift us out.
>> So you said you're willing to be
misunderstood for a long period of time.
>> Yes.
>> What are you working on now that might
be misunderstood or underappreciated
that you think is going to drive your
growth 10 years, 20 years beyond?
But right now, we're just opening up the
uh largest solar wafer manufacturing
facility in the United States of America
because what we believed is that the US
would need to have energy independence
and that included renewables and that is
a market that has been dominated largely
by China. And we knew cuz we understood
the base material well and we make that
for use in semiconductor. You use a
dirtier form of that for solar. And we
took the opportunity to move forward in
the value chain and build this because
we believed that we could build a really
significant business and that solar
would take a very large position uh over
time in our energy mix in the US. And so
that is largely unappreciated right now
uh because we went through an investment
cycle through it. But I think that's
going to be a tremendous growth. You
know there's two rules in life, right?
Number one is never get into a land war
in Asia. [laughter] Number two,
>> oh baby, you're my kind of people. If
we're good to two princess bride, you
and I are going to get along.
>> But [laughter] um but but number two
though is um it's a close correlary.
never get into a business that the
Chinese government is willing to
subsidize for all eternity. So why are
you getting into solar panels when your
opponent is literally the CCP and for 30
years completely taken over the global
solar panel market?
>> It just seems crazy. So, first of all,
this is something we've done a lot of.
Uh, so you've got to realize in stuff
like fiber optics, in display, in mobile
consumer electronics, all of those
products, we compete against uh Chinese
companies both in China
and uh around the world and we've done
it quite successfully. The way we do it
is uh we're always the lowest cost
producer in the world, right? in what we
do.
>> So, you're confident that with this new
um plant, which I think is in Michigan,
>> yes.
>> You're going to be able to beat the
subsidized cost of Chinese solar
>> for a start, the government policy gave
us a head start, which is the US is
either going to protect this market
through terrorist structures, which
they're doing, or through what they did
in the tax code to uh say yet there's
tax credits available if you manufacture
renewable. that gave us the opportunity
to do this, be able to quite confidently
believe we'll get twice our our money
back that we're investing and then after
that that will give us enough time to
reinvent solar and we have a number of
ways which we think we could do that.
>> Okay. Well, let's talk about that
reinvention. We can we can talk about it
in terms of solar if you want
>> or in terms of your overall product
strategy.
>> Yes. outside of let's say defense
contracting the number of companies that
are uh doing
US R&D for hardware for stuff for atoms
rather than bits
>> that generally is in decline. What is it
about Corning that allows you to do so
much of that R&D domestically? I think
people misunderstand innovation quite
often especially in the material space
which is they think the most important
important piece of innovation is
invention and it actually isn't right in
many ways that's sort of the most
trivial part right uh what we try to do
is build the whole company to deliver a
real innovation and that means we have
to invent yes but then we have to make
we have to be deep experts in it and we
invent our own manufacturing ing
processes. We build all of our own
equipment ourselves, right? Because
that's how we develop these high
proprietary vantage plotics and
processes that allow us to compete
against anybody.
>> You know, in 2017, Tim Cook said the
reason that they are doing their
manufacturing, you know, with Foxcon in
China is that there is so much more
talent there. Mhm.
>> How are you able to close that skills
gap which we know exists in American
manufacturing now because we have lost
frankly the knowledge uh for how to do
so many things.
>> Uh so a number of ways. First, if uh
you're interested in our little slice,
if you're an engineer or a scientist out
there and you're interested in our
little slice of the periodic table and
our little slice of the electromagnetic
spectrum, we're like the place to work.
So, we never have had a problem
attracting talent. Now, when it comes to
manufacturing, one of the keys is to
never stop. So, we develop our own
manufacturing
folks. We train them themselves. We hire
right out of school. Have our own pieces
and then they work all over the world.
So when we built our solar operation, we
were able to take the last time we built
a factory that big, we were building it
in China. But those were the same
Corning people that we sent from there
that built that and then some of the
people that we had hired locally there
to do that. And then that same skill set
then helps us start up the next thing.
And so we've always done this. We move
skills between businesses because since
we're so well balanced, there's always
something in our innovation portfolio
that's undergoing growth while another
piece sort of is undergoing a little bit
of decline and maturity. But just
because you work in one of our divisions
or technologies that's going down, you
don't work for that. You work for
coining. So what we do is we then move
you from that division, that plant to
the area where we grow. And that's why
most of the people at Corning have had
tons of careers all working for the same
company.
>> I'm glad you're talking about
manufacturing expertise. Uh because as I
understand it, you uh part of your
current growth is that you're benefiting
from provisions in the the so-called big
beautiful bill. Is that right? Well, I
think we're benefiting uh the the not so
much from the a big beautiful bill as we
are this administration's focus on uh US
manufacturing
is uh something that we are feeling and
our customers are feeling and it's
increasing demand for us with sort of a
pretty unique ability. But to be clear,
it's primarily increasing demand for
your fiber optic product, right?
>> Fiber optics, but also what you just saw
from Apple, which is super exciting, was
we're going to make Apple's covers all
in Herodsburg, Kentucky, which was a
plant we actually opened, I don't know,
1950s during the Cold War for particular
Cold War products. And now Apple, we're
going to dedicate that entire facility
to them. And I think there's no question
part of that is uh the focus on
Americanbased manufacturing and we're
one of their suppliers and partners that
can actually do that and do it at enough
scale to do every iPhone. Now, now
correct me if I'm wrong, but
in terms of uh, you know, shiny glass
objects that you've been manufacturing
for Apple, you know, this summer when
when Tim Cook gave
>> President Trump a glass plaque,
>> Yes.
>> Did Corning manufacture I guess the
glass portion of that at least?
>> Yes. was actually made in the
Herodsburg, Kentucky plant by the folks
whose sort of lives are going to get
covered and transformed for the next two
decades because of Apple's commitment.
So, we wanted it to be made by those
folks is what Apple asked us to do.
>> I would love a little bit of behind the
scenes color on that. Like, how do you
and Tim Cook communicate? Did he call
you up? Do you guys have like a red
phone between the two of you? And he was
like, Wendell, I need you to make a very
special plaque.
No, they they wanted something to
commemorate this uh uh because it just
didn't work out to have uh the White
House come to the plant in the
appropriate time when we were firing up
this brand new tank and everything. And
so to commemorate that uh they basically
we just kicked around ideas and we've
thought what would be great would be if
the people made the product out of the
glass that they actually make every day
as sort of a labor of love for Apple to
be able to
uh make the gift. So it's our little
version of arts and crafts.
>> Sure.
>> And to be clear, this is like gorilla
glass. Like if that gets knocked off of
Trump's desk, it's not going to shatter.
>> Well, we didn't exchange it. But if we
if we didn't take it all the way through
the process, but it's the same base
composition. Yes.
>> Overall, US manufacturing output is
down.
>> Uh, you know, you talked to the big
manufacturers in the US, right? The
biggest by volume, and they're not fans
of tariffs. Why is why are these
policies benefiting you but not others?
How why are you uniquely positioned that
you're not seemingly being hurt by
tariffs? Or if you are, it's being more
than offset by increased demand and
other incentives.
>> Because we make it all ourselves
in a totally controlled supply chain
manner. So if you're a big automotive
company, you have tier one and tier 2
suppliers and then uh over time as you
seek to optimize cost, what happens is
those uh various
uh suppliers at various levels move to
all sorts of different places. And so
car companies uh don't actually
personally manufacture
a super high level of their content.
they do in certain areas, right? Uh so
what happens is then tariff structures
since they're not their suppliers aren't
making it here end up exposing them to
that incremental economic penalty which
is meant to encourage them to make more
of their content here in the US. And so
the differential is what we did is we
kept our advanced manufacturing
footprint here and we're able to do all
the pieces.
>> Yeah. But to put a fine point on that
also like you're not buying your base
material from overseas or if you are
like there are no tariffs on I don't
know sand.
>> Yeah. So in our base material this is
how seriously we take localization. We
try to develop local sources for the
like we want. So the Gorilla Glass, it's
going to be manufactured in Kentucky.
>> Yes.
>> Where is that mind? Where's the
basement?
>> We source that stuff in Pennsylvania.
>> Particular sand made in Pennsylvania.
>> So the So the billiony old
>> hills of Pennsylvania, you're taking
sand out of there.
>> Uhhuh.
>> You're shipping it to Kentucky.
>> That gets turned into the cover glass
for every iPhone on Earth.
>> Yeah, that's what we're going to do. And
but that we also will localize.
>> Does it get a made in Pennsylvania
sticker on there or made in
>> I wish we did. That's such a great
>> like Apple where they say designed by
Apple manufactured in China.
>> Made from Pennsylvania sand. But I'm
really curious though how specifically
the sort of Trump uh manufacturing
incentives are helping you
versus
>> uh the incentives in the inflation
reduction act which you know
incentivized solar right that that was
the regime under which you were like
we're going to invest in solar panels.
Yes. You know now
>> obviously it's a different world
structures.
>> So what a great question deep question.
So the first place to start is sort of
the consensus has changed.
The consensus used to be right uh sort
of Milton Friedman it was this
financialization. It's like we're all
going to trade with the world and
whatever's the lowest cost, everybody's
going to have their comparative
advantage and like that worked for a
while, right? But then it stopped
working, right? And so the consensus has
sort of changed now wait a minute like
we need to be able to produce in the US
for the US
because like the world's not necessarily
always a safe place, right? and we're
not providing enough for our people that
we we get hollowing out all these great
paths to middle class jobs. So then the
consensus shifted to we're going to do
some form of industrial policy. It's
very unpopular word but it is really
what they're doing like uh under Biden
it was we're going to subsidize those
things that we like
>> clean energy for example
>> like in green energy so we're going to
create uh tax uh advantage tax situation
just like way back when we've always had
some form of industrial policy like the
reason you have a why do we have a
deduction on your home interest but not
rent well that's that's like industrial
policy I want to
Department of Defense is is is
industrial policy is responsible rally
in the first place.
>> It's just what people hate is like when
the they always like the story when a
government picks a winner and loser.
That's what we don't like, right? But
creating incentive structures, you know,
that makes perfect sense. That's what
you're supposed to do for your society.
>> So that was the before that was the IRA.
what he would rather do is say, "Okay,
what we're going to do is if you don't
make it here,
>> we're going to subject you to a
terrorist structure."
>> So,
>> well, it's got the same effect, right?
>> Um, it's just
>> who is paying for what when.
>> This administration has proved so many
economists wrong about what would the
effect be of these tariff structures.
Now, will it work? We'll see. I mean the
problem with manufacturing is it is it
takes a long time. It took a long time
for the US to lose it, right? And it's
taken a long time. It will take a long
time to bring it back. And that to me is
the challenge of how do we want to face
this as as an American society. So to
sum it up, it feels like you are able to
thrive in this new world order, which if
we look to history is I mean it was it
was many many many moons ago that
tariffs were last the primary tool
>> exactly
>> of restructuring the American economy.
>> You're 175 nearly 175 year old company.
So it feels like you are you're you're a
company from another era.
>> Yes.
>> And now the US government is saying we'd
like to return to that era. You're one
of the few manufacturers that's actually
positioned to do.
>> And it's it's largely because like
we do us, right? No matter what the
problem is, like we're doing us, right?
That's just us. And like sometimes it's
incredibly advantaged like living our
life the way we want to live it.
sometimes is disadvantaged. And when
it's disadvantaged, you got to be
willing to eat that pain to sustain
manufacturing.
And it just so happened that sort of
government policy is now switched to be
more in line with who we are. So now we
look really smart, but in truth, we're
just being us. We're not really smart.
We're just being us. We're living our
values, right? Does that make sense to
you, Chris?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's
a it's a you're you're a highly advanced
innovation focused
uh slightly twe
>> Yes.
>> Uh [laughter]
uh sepia toned
>> company from another era.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh you know uh uh bridging the uh the
ages from Thomas Edison
>> to um Sam
>> because what we really believe is this
like you just think about it like
there's a lot from the past that's
always worth keeping. There's also a lot
from the past that is worth changing,
right? But one thing from the past
that's always worth keeping is the
degree with which you never forget that
it's not just standing behind a
corporation, right? It's it's like real
humans, right? Trying to build real
lives. We don't always get it right, but
that's like we try to lead from who we
are. That's who we are, right? And um
you know, sometimes we look stupid and
sometimes we look smart. Neither is that
true.
>> Yeah, Wendell, it's been a pleasure.
Thank you so much for coming on Bold
Names.
>> Well, I've loved getting to know you.
Come visit.
>> We reached out to Apple, but they did
not respond to our request for comment.
We also reached out to the Chinese
embassy in Washington, DC, and a
spokesperson disagreed with the
characterization of China's place in the
solar market. The spokesperson said
China's quote leading edge end quote is
the result of competitive advantage, not
subsidies. A spokesperson for the White
House said that President Trump's
tariffs have yielded results for the
American people. While the Biden
administration quote half-hazardly doled
out taxpayer money. Finally, we reached
out to the Biden administration and
former chief of staff Ron Clay said that
President Biden put a strong focus on
American manufacturing during his term
in office without the quote inflationary
impact of tariffs.